but it doesn't take much imagination at
all for people to have this experience
of simple for young men to be trained in
this not voyeuristic role but this
consumers role this pay to play model
this paying for attention this paying
for the right to send and receive
messages this paying for escalating
levels of dissimulated intimacy it's not
just that it takes very little
imagination to see how that's going to
shape their sex lives there are ways of
relating to gender roles dating marriage
it's almost impossible to see how it
could fail to impact their lives in
those ways for years and years ago : K
Torito his girlfriend is actually just
completely just random he's not a person
on stream
he's not a person on YouTube it looks
like biscuit
[Music]
nobody said it was easy oh it's such a
shame for us to part nobody said it was
easy oh it's so hard being Katarina sex
I'm never gonna have sex
[Music]
give me five hundred bits I'll do the
rest
[Music]
in part because millions of people
around the world are cooped up in the
middle of an epidemic at the moment
there's been a broadening and deepening
discourse about one website in
particular and about the increasing
encroachment of pornography into the
daily lives of all of us in the decadent
West that website is only fans only fans
doesn't do anything new but it brings
together elements that are already
familiar from patreon Instagram and
outright pornography and puts them
together in one package that seems to be
now remarkably culturally appealing and
in some cases takes up grey areas in
between pornography fanservice
and outright prostitution sex work of
various kinds and only fans has emerged
taking on this role in a period when new
laws in the United States of America
actually shut down many websites that
formerly notoriously handled sec
work Craigslist no longer has a personal
section no longer has men seeking women
or women seeking men and if you can
remember the old days just to think
about two years ago there used to be a
long list of all the possible gender
combinations men seeking women but also
like couples seeking men couples to its
long list of acronyms people click on
well all that's gone that's all thing of
the past and the new prominence of only
fans has partly emerged to fill that
void so there are a lot of conversations
going on in kitchens and dining rooms
and living rooms including our own about
the extent to which this may be impacts
the psychology ethics and culture of a
new generation of young women who grew
up with at least this option of selling
images of themselves and they could just
be images of themselves in a bikini or
images themselves in their underwear of
course all the way over to not just
hardcore pornography but prostitution
sex work of various kinds a lot of
reflection focus on the women what I
wanted to attention you in this video is
that there's a need really
philosophically to examine also the
impacts on the men now I think that some
of the most important problems and
questions in our society first emerge as
comedy like I think if you look at the
history of gay rights a lot of it first
emerged as a joke like there really was
a time when the idea of two men getting
married was a laughing matter there was
a time when having a transsexual person
run for office be elected as mayor was a
laughing matter there's a time when it
was considered a great radical
breakthrough that the TV show soap had
an openly gay lead character it was a
comedy but you know within just a few
decades those issues that were addressed
with so much discomfort mmm awkward
laughter whether by stand-up comedians
or TV and movies those became you know
serious political platform issues that
fundamentally transform daily life for
people around the world the jokes that
are being made now about simple I think
in the same way there's something really
important and really powerful here for
us to examine keep this in perspective I
am over 40 years old and when I was a
kid there was hysteria about the
psychological ethical impacts of young
men encountering nudity and sexual
images just in the format of a printed
book now think about the relationship I
could have or anyone could have to an
inert image on a printed page there's no
way that can ever be as evocative
there's no way that can ever be as
emotionally impactful as sending a voice
message to someone who's the object of
your desire and then having them record
and send a voice message back hits
that's what only fans offers of course
snapchat and numerous other web sites
offered that before and people were for
sending up patreon and having people pay
to join their patreon and then give them
a special snapchat and then at this
communication I admit it's not new but
maybe the examination of it the cultural
recognition of how important is it kind
of isn't it well people sit back and say
whoa this is something very different
from what existed before with just an
image on the page people have the
illusion of a personal relationship with
of personal interaction with these
celebrities or stars or you know women
present it in sex doctors and so on they
have the illusion and for a high enough
price sometimes maybe it's not just an
illusion
it's a reality whereas they they are
simply playing it up for for the
audience
we are completely benign and here
because we we enjoy and we think it's
fun we also
I went to Disney together off stream
don't need you doing that Wilbur if we
did stream it it would have been [ __ ]
huge but we've heard more about spending
time together than streaming it because
we are friends smile yeah yeah Wilbur
yeah Wow
imagine being you guys the more
competitive you are the higher you get
plus you guys win cause castles game I'm
gay too
true okay it's different look if you pay
enough money you get to talk to them for
hours at a time on skype if you pay
enough money you get to meet them for a
dinner date if you pay enough money in
some cases keeping all the way real you
can have sex with them right and you
will have to recognize the possibility
of this can have them but powerful
powerful impact on the imagination of
young men who are the consumers for this
the possibility can shape the way they
perceive and feel the world probably
more than the reality as much as we may
joke about it therefore I really see in
this kind of punchline about simple a
sincere and important form of moral
concern a guy like Carson aka call me
Carson okay did he even know to what
extent he was playing a game did he
recognize to what extent he was paying
someone to be his fake make-believe
girlfriend and did he even have a clear
concept of where fantasy stops and
reality starts like it's funny because
these debates they were had at a very
insincere and phony way back when we
were talking about like playboy magazine
printed on paper by the way Playboy
magazine which included like discussions
of politics and literature or in
interviews with you know business
leaders like Lee Iacocca
playboy magazine actually at a very
unexpected effect for many teenagers who
got a hold a bit like whoa there's a
whole realm of kind of intellectual
content stuffed into this if you just
bought it for the nudity there's a whole
concept really of what it is to be a
sophisticated middle-aged man presented
you in the pages playboy magazine which
you're now not getting also that even
said we kind of rehearsed this discourse
at a time when technologically and
through the relationship that
pornography offered between the desiring
consumer and the object of the desire it
was quite insincere to be clear I would
not say that it is impossible for a
person to have a definite notion of
their own gender role or sexuality on
the basis of something they saw printed
on a piece of paper whether that's an
image or a story or political ideology
that they read on a piece of every
pieces of paper influenced us and partly
because we choose those pieces of paper
and then we pick them up and read them
and we choose what we do with those
ideas or notions they impart to us okay
but there's a lot of work involved there
all right it's much more than just a
small leap of inference to go from
looking at a naked picture on a piece of
paper or reading a story or maybe
reading the autobiography of someone you
look up to which includes them
discussing their sex lives in relation
between the sexes you can take that
information and mold it into your own
ideologies for how you're gonna live now
you're gonna treat women and so forth
right but it doesn't take much
imagination at all for people to have
this experience of simple for young men
to be trained in this not voyeuristic
role but this consumers role this pay to
play model this paying for attention
this paying for the right to send and
receive messages this paying for
escalating levels of dissimulated
intimacy it's not just that it takes
very little imagination to see how
that's going to shape their sex lives
there are ways of relating to gender
roles dating marriage it's almost
impossible to see how it could fail to
impact their lives and though
for years and years to come the first
time I really had to think about these
issues in my own life was much much
later than it would have been if I
hadn't been doing humanitarian work in
exotic far-off Cambodia and Laos
during those years in my life email was
important to me email was important part
of my life but not the internet not
Instagram not YouTube those things
existed but I had no contact with them
when I returned to the decadent West
there was one very very good-looking
young woman I started talking to and I
have high standards in case you don't
follow this channel I do have high
standards and I started talking to her
not because she was good-looking at all
she was vegan I was vegan and she made
one very coded statement on social media
indicating that she had relapsed she had
started using methamphetamine again and
she was afraid she was going to ruin her
education drop out of university that
you know this was gonna derail her
studies and I knew about her that she
had a past some years earlier of using
meth but had quit for a number of years
she would clean for number of years so I
started writing to her right away and I
guess we talked via Skype if it wasn't
Skype it was some other you know voice
platform like that maybe maybe it was
even old fashioned telephone now that I
think about it but you know I got I got
on the phone with her and again if you
know this channel you probably know I'm
very good at giving a highly motivating
morality lecture to people maybe I'm
even better at doing it one on one but I
was really saying to her look every
month that your university counts every
week you know even during the holidays
you know even your eating reading week
if you screw this up you get back on
these drugs you're gonna regret it for
the rest of your life you can fill in
the blank and she knew I had a wife now
divorced I had a kid now in a legal
custody battle and don't get
here's officer like to but at that time
I was with my wife and my child and I
never presented myself as being in any
way interested in her romantically
nor did I present myself as being
available and you know it meant a lot to
me no surprise I mean she did appreciate
it
she got back in touch with me a couple
weeks later as ever called and it seemed
to me that she was expecting me to move
forward with seducing her or trying to
get in bed with her and she started
talking to me in a manner that was
completely banal and didn't reveal that
she was trying to flirt with me or was
expecting me to flirt with her in any
way and that she quickly got very
frustrated with me started swearing at
me
and I'll always remember she said she
said to me don't you be [ __ ] coy with
me very straight guys I don't I don't
hear the word coy a lot definitely not
from people under age 50 that
conversation ended with her blocking me
and never speeding me again and I talked
about it with my wife and I said to her
look when I was a kid there were
good-looking girls who got a job working
at a bar as a bartender and they got
kind of corrupted by having people
flatter than him all the time having
people flirt with them all the time and
you know if you were a good-looking girl
even working at Starbucks it can be like
that I was a good-looking guy working at
Starbucks didn't corrupt me but yeah a
lot of women flirted with me and a lot
of women you know it was part of it was
a weird part of the job
so definitely as a young person any kind
of service in Israel but I said to
Martha time I said look I think what
we're seeing here is the way the
internet raises that up many many levels
and it brings it into people's lives
much more intimately and much more
powerfully and a platform like only fans
it's paying people to flirt in an
extensive and deep way with their fans
they're being paid to send text messages
back and forth they're being paid to
make the time itself on skype and it's
protracted overtime and of course there
there may or may not be nude photos
involved or fully clothed photos
involved whatever but obviously the
nature of that interaction and flirting
it's both deeper than working as a
bartender or working at Starbucks and
and it's broader in the sense that it
gives the woman as the object of desire
it gives her the impression that it's a
much broader part of humanity that acts
this way all right
like if you work at Starbucks it's only
one guy out of a hundred that tries to
flirt with you or trustee on you and if
you open a profile on only fans or many
of these websites it seems like it's a
hundred out of a hundred men that are
trying to sleep with you and so much so
that this woman she she didn't reveal to
me anything but her background that way
I don't know I mean it could have just
been that on MySpace she was used to
having a myspace page and she was a
really good-looking woman and on MySpace
or Facebook or Instagram and she was
getting this coming she was so used to a
hundred out of a hundred guys trying to
seduce her that after she had this
somewhat intense personal experience
with me she was furious with me because
I was not trying to seduce her so yeah
that in my own autobiography was this
weird kind of wake up call and since
then not a whole lot of times but two
three four times I have seen that again
and again where you meet young women who
have just become accustomed to men
always playing that role and now
increasingly of course they're going to
get accustomed to men paying to play
that role
but this isn't just changing the
behavior of the women we're also
training a new generation of men I think
with even more terrible consequences
that are frankly even harder to
understand